---
title: "2018"
weight: 282
chapter: true
---


{{<youtube id="S9wtlBEPor8">}}

This film mainly discusses the application of statistics in earthquake risk assessment, case-control study, EM algorithm and Kaplan-Meier curve, etc., and emphasizes its importance in public health, medicine, epidemiology and other fields. The video mentions how earthquake engineers use the EM algorithm to analyze surface acceleration for earthquake risk assessment and seismic design, and introduces the wide application of Kaplan-Meier curves in the biomedical field. At the same time, research by statisticians on reducing sampling error has also received attention. The film focuses on the challenges of big data in data integration and analysis. Taking the National Health Insurance Database and the National Health Survey as examples, it explains how to combine big data and fine-grained databases for analysis, and use probability and statistical methods to reduce sampling errors and improve forecasting Accuracy. This video introduces the excellent performance of the EM algorithm, which can handle missing values ​​reasonably and obtain valid results. Attention should be paid to the amount of variation in data fusion, and seismic data should be considered to describe the variation factors of seismic paths. The EM algorithm can improve the maximization and optimization of the objective function, but the calculation complexity is high, the convergence speed is slow, and it depends on the initial parameters. The E-EM algorithm needs to rely on the initial parameters to make assumptions, and the strength of the new interval has little influence; the new interval can be calculated after convergence. Finally, I would like to remind you that the next Knowledge Feast will be held on May 29th. Distinguished researcher Wu Shixiong will give a lecture on the topic of "the relationship between sugar molecules and life". ,

{{<youtube id="6E7t_KqBnnM">}}

This video is the Academia Sinica's May Knowledge Feast Lecture, Dr. Wu Zhixiong was invited to share the relationship between sugar molecules and life. Glucose has multiple functions in the human body, such as energy source, ATP generation, structural role and cell message transmission. Cell surface carbohydrates also play an important role in cell-to-cell communication and protection. Dr. Wu talked about the relationship between carbohydrate antigen and blood type, and the application of anticoagulants in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. The film discusses in depth acute coronary symptoms, diabetes, methanol toxicity, and mentions the 1918 Spanish flu and H1N1 flu viruses. In addition, the film highlights the problem of bacterial resistance and the importance of vaccination, and explores the reasons why Zongzi have difficulty digesting. Finally, the Logo of Kangzhi Technology was introduced: anti-disease and anti-aging, and explained the role of H and N in virus classification. This video explores the role of protein and polysaccharide antigens in the immune process. The speaker mentioned that H1-3 and H5-7 are the keys to human influenza and avian influenza respectively, and explained the relationship between EPO and the kidney and the possible anemia problems encountered by kidney dialysis patients. The video mentions that both bovine kidney essence and black fungus polysaccharides can activate macrophages, but research on polysaccharides has been slow because of their complex structures. The difference between polysaccharide vaccines and protein-conjugated vaccines is that polysaccharide vaccines only use polysaccharides and do not require protein carriers. The speaker mentioned that there are products targeting polysaccharide vaccines on the market, such as the 13-strain Streptococcus pneumoniae vaccine. In addition, the issue of nosocomial infections and related measures to reduce nosocomial infections, such as hand washing and wearing masks, are discussed. Finally, the speaker explained how sugars are added to proteins, and discussed the importance of choosing a suitable Linker from a cellular and chemical perspective. Thanks to Professor Wu Zhixiong for sharing this speech. ,

{{<youtube id="NXIg07-dPp4">}}

In his speech at the Institute of Earth Sciences, researcher Lin Zhengxiong talked about the volcanic disaster risk in Taipei City and related records and early warning measures. Taking the ancient city of Pompeii as an example, it shows that the scenery beside the volcano is beautiful, but it is potentially dangerous. The threat of volcanic activity to humans depends on the characteristics of the volcano and the disaster prevention measures. This video discusses how to predict volcanic eruptions by observing seismic activity and deformation of the Earth's crust. In response to volcanic disasters, Taiwan has formulated corresponding business plans and is conducting a large-scale exploration project.

The coexistence of volcanoes and cities is also discussed in the film. Advances in technology allow us to better deal with and reduce risks. Researcher Lin emphasized the possible mutual triggering relationship between volcanoes and earthquakes, as well as the uncertainty and individuality of volcanic behavior. He argues that each volcano has a unique personality that makes long-term eruption prediction challenging. This film discusses the risks of volcanic activity, the S-wave shadow and P-wave haze phenomena, and studies of the volume and depth of magma chambers. Criteria for judging the degree of volcanic activity include recent eruptive records and the presence or absence of magma reservoirs. The early warning of future volcanic activity and landslide disaster still needs further research. It is mentioned in the film that Yellowstone Park in the United States is a typical super-large volcano. The problem of returning residents after a volcanic eruption is complicated. Usually, people will want to return home when the volcano is not smoking. Earthquake prediction is difficult, and the Tatun and Keelung submarine volcanoes are volcanic threats in northern Taiwan. The film also discusses the causes of soreness and related knowledge, and introduces the research on pain-sensing molecules and acid receptor molecules. ,

{{<youtube id="2cwy7QO9GO0">}}

During the summer vacation, the volcanic issues in Taipei City and Pompeii caused heated discussions. The Legislative Yuan has incorporated volcanic disasters into the category of natural disasters, but Taiwan is still unfamiliar with volcanic disasters. Experts are worried about the geological problems in northern Taiwan, fearing that volcanic activity may trigger fault activity at the foot of the mountain and affect the Taipei metropolitan area. The Taipei Basin may face hazards from the eruption of Mount Qixing. In the past, it was believed that there would be no volcanic eruptions in Taiwan, but geologists discovered that Daling Volcano had volcanic activity, and Daling Volcano was considered a dormant volcano. The Ministry of Science and Technology proposed a four-year plan to determine the size, depth and location of the magma chamber. Scientists have set up an observatory at Taiwan's Datong Volcano and are using seismographs, crustal deformation and geochemical instruments aimed at picking up anomalous signals ahead of the eruption. Although it is impossible to predict the situation of volcanic eruption in the long term, it has certain predictive ability in the short term. Volcanic areas are rich in geothermal resources and tourism potential. This video discusses the possibility of Yangmingshan volcanic activity and related observations about volcanic cities, pointing out that Taipei City is a volcanic city, and it is necessary to prepare for countermeasures in advance. At present, there are only a few cases in the world, such as the Datong Volcanic Group in Taiwan, that use liquid material observation methods to analyze volcanic behavior. This video introduces the types, classification and eruption process of volcanoes, pointing out that volcanic eruptions are relatively easy to predict, but active and quiet changes are more difficult. The video mentions some ways to reduce earthquakes, but the implementation is risky. In addition, the film mentions the connection between the Beitou earthquake and plate movement, and argues that Japan has made progress in preventing volcanic disasters. Finally, the film explores issues such as crater lakes, the ecological impact of submarine volcanoes, and methods of volcanic dating. ,

{{<youtube id="tekkHJ-piV8">}}

In this sharing session, researchers who graduated from the Department of Chemistry at National Taiwan University introduced their research results for many years, exploring how neurons affect the life course in terms of development and genetics. The researchers used fruit flies and mice as research subjects to explore the influence of proneural genes on the formation of sensory organs. Cell competition and cooperation play important roles in the process of cell division and influence cell development; for example, achieving alignment, responding to environmental changes, etc. Research on brain plasticity, neuron function and apoptosis also shows that the progress of neuroscience is of great significance for understanding the process of disease development. In terms of Parkinson's disease research, researchers have used fruit flies to find drugs with palliative and therapeutic effects, and found that traditional Chinese medicine may also have a protective effect on Parkinson's disease. Researchers continue to explore the application potential of these chemical molecules. Researchers looking for a better combination of ingredients to curb the onset of Parkinson's disease, point to unconstrained ideas that may be effective for some types of Parkinson's disease. Studying behavioral changes in Drosophila allows for the observation of neurodegeneration linked to the axotomy process. Scientists stress the ethics of gender identity and gene editing research. Pegasus has a protective effect, but whether it can treat Parkinson's disease remains to be proven. Alzheimer's research has no definitive answer. This video emphasizes that exercise has a curative effect on Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease, while coffee and smoking only have an associated protective effect. Finally, the film discusses the division of the optic nerve in processing visual information and the differences in human sensitivity to color. ,

{{<youtube id="WPE82qyvgRc">}}

The film mainly introduces the development and application of thermoelectric technology and thermoelectric materials, and emphasizes its importance in energy transition and energy efficiency improvement. Thermoelectric materials can be used in industries such as automobiles to improve energy efficiency, and can also be used in spacecraft, Mars exploration vehicles, etc. Different materials have their own properties at different temperatures.

However, the thermoelectric efficiency still needs to be improved, and more applications are found in alternative energy sources such as solar energy and wind energy. The government needs to actively develop renewable energy such as solar energy and wind energy to reduce dependence on energy that was no longer applicable in the past.

In the film, different modern technologies and power conversion challenges are also explored, such as OTEC technology that uses temperature differences to generate power, but the economics are yet to be improved. When discussing energy, it is necessary to consider the cost of power generation and economic benefits. Thermoelectric systems can increase efficiency and reduce prices. Although Germany and California invest in green energy, it is still difficult to replace nuclear energy in the short term. Different countries deal with nuclear waste in different ways. For example, India actively develops nuclear energy, and France adopts re-enrichment technology. For Taiwan, the problem of nuclear waste is serious, and the storage space is insufficient. It even considers reducing the production capacity of nuclear power plants. And Taiwan has achieved initial success in wind power generation. In addition, Taiwan's recycling achievements are closely related to voluntary organizations such as Tzu Chi, and have abundant methane ice resources. Research on space rockets can improve the country's international status. Finally, young people are called upon to participate in energy research. ,

