---
title: "2022"
weight: 278
chapter: true
---


{{<youtube id="So1Sij8HwB0">}}

This video is to celebrate the 130th anniversary of the birth of Dean Zhu Jiahua. Distinguished Chair Professor Li Dingguo shares his deep friendship with Dean Zhu and his mental journey of physics research. The content of the lecture explores the properties of elements and emergent phenomena, such as superconductivity and collective phenomena of brain nerves. Academician Li pointed out that the Cooper pair is the key to the formation of superconductivity. The film also mentions the Jansen phenomenon (Messner effect) interacting with superconductors and magnetic fields, and its typical applications. Research directions can be divided into top-down and bottom-up strategies. In addition, the field of high-temperature superconductor research is quite important and complex, and new discoveries are made every year. In the film, the speaker also mentioned flock behavior models and brain neuron research, as well as the emergence of new behaviors and activities in sociological research. Finally, issues such as neuronal thresholds and free radicals are explored, noting that nature works surprisingly well. This video explores the generation of new phenomena by increasing force strength and system complexity, and mentions last year's Nobel Prize-winning work on the spin-glass model. The speaker emphasized that nature can provide its own solutions and discussed chain reactions in life sciences. The film mainly talks about the problem of critical phenomena and explores three related questions. Although the answers are not easy to find, it points out that physicists need real data for analysis. In addition, the speaker discussed the phenomenon of superconductivity and the generation of Cooper Pair coherence, and mentioned that future superconductors may operate at higher temperatures. This presentation covers the relevance of energy issues to social development and introduces knowledge of group and emerging behaviors. ,

{{<youtube id="LHNV4wuCF-w">}}

This video introduces the lectures given by the Hu Shih Foundation and Professor Wu Renshu, discussing the study of theft cases in the Qing Dynasty and related laws. In the past, everyday crimes were often neglected in criminal history research, but there is enough historical material for research today. Through case analysis, the film mentions the consideration of criminal responsibility and the situation of solving theft cases during the Qing Dynasty. Compared with the modern crime detection rate, the detection rate was low at that time. Criminological theories explain why the poor choose to steal. In addition, the film mentions the social factors that caused the increase of theft cases in Chongqing in the mid-19th century, and discusses the contradictions and conflicts among them. Finally, the problem of preserving local judicial archives is pointed out. The film mainly discusses research directions such as the methods of solving crimes and the role of the detective in the Ming and Qing Dynasties, and points out that the identity of the detective is difficult to determine. In addition, widows in the Ming and Qing Dynasties were restricted by laws and customs, and common crimes were common in the Ming Dynasty. There are many cases of theft, and the family life is not difficult, the value of the items is low, and the punishment is light. It is difficult to catch thieves, there is a lack of evidence, and the actual punishment is unknown. It is recommended to raise a yellow dog to prevent theft. Professor Wu's lectures aroused enthusiastic responses, and the audience could communicate with him. ,

{{<youtube id="ygTlhF_LQeo">}}

In the first of the five major lectures of the 110-year Knowledge Feast of the Central Concert Academy, academician Liang Gengyi was invited to give a speech, sharing the academic transformation and research results from mathematics to biostatistics. Academician Liang emphasized the difference between mathematics and statistics and the impact of education and biostatistics on human health. In addition, the film explains the Curtain Maier method and its application in the study of genes and survival rates, and explains the four main axes of public health and the concept of prevention. The speaker also emphasized the importance of equivalence and mutual care in global health, uneven distribution of vaccines and wearing masks during the epidemic. In terms of medical education reform, Yangming University shared the whole-person education experience, including the introduction of the admission time and the introduction of PBL teaching method. Finally, the importance of foreign pharmaceutical education system and personnel training is mentioned. This film mainly discusses the importance of promoting Chinese arts universities, the myth of research universities and the challenges facing higher education in Taiwan. It is pointed out that research and education should be closely integrated, and the way to improve the SCI ranking is to combine universities and medical schools. Taiwan's higher education is facing challenges, including declining birth rate, too many universities, insufficient funds and difficulties in recruiting talents, and the introduction of policies often lacks long-term planning. The future trend is distance and smart medical care, but excessive reliance on high technology may widen the gap between the rich and the poor. The presenter of the film shared his personal experience and discussed issues such as care for the elderly and medical education reform, emphasizing that the community, educators and doctors should pay close attention to and cooperate with each other. This film emphasizes the importance of seniors in developing young people and the need to maintain a young mind. Finally, he mentioned the health big data integration platform promoted by the Taiwan government, but reminded that there may be potential risks in over-reliance on big data. ,

{{<youtube id="hwrEPBauKgw">}}

The Academia Sinica’s 110-year knowledge experience event invited historian Lei Xiangning to discuss the impact of epidemics on human society. From unraveling the mystery of China's tuberculosis mortality rate in the 1930s, and introducing Dr. Wu Lien-teh, a Chinese medical scientist with anti-epidemic masks, to discussing issues such as the relationship between public health and identity, water sources and the spread of epidemics. Epidemic prevention measures not only promote new living appliances and hygiene habits, but also change people's body awareness, feelings, interpersonal relationships, boundaries and self-identity, and even ethical values. At the beginning of the 20th century, tinea proliferated in China and Japan, when medicine focused on the relationship between the family and the state. The film mentions that the process of epidemic prevention unconsciously strengthens identity, and the problem that the Chinese family food system may lead to serious diseases, and mentions the impact of 19th-century hygiene science on anatomical body definition. Finally, the concept of "Hydrogenic Chinese Dining Table" proposed by Taiwanese doctors and how to find a balance in modern civilization will be introduced. The video shared topics such as Korean dining habits, family changes, and the economy. The speaker mentioned that countries regard borders as a factor of security to strengthen internal solidarity, and pointed out that sanitary measures make borders more visible and have uncontrolled disease effects. At the same time, topics such as the conflict between national culture and liberalism, and the possible Western influence on Japanese dining styles are explored. Although the Kuomintang and the Communist Party have different health concepts, they both pursue people's awareness and health protection. Academician Liu Fang, chair professor of Taipei Medical University, will be invited for the next speech, with the theme "From Housing to Longevity, Unlocking the Common Mechanism". ,

