---
title: "2023"
weight: 277
chapter: true
---


{{<youtube id="psDumxD77Tg">}}

The Academia Sinica’s 112th Annual Science Popularization Award Ceremony invited Distinguished Researcher Ma Guofeng to share seismic monitoring technology, and introduced the research on using optical fiber to observe seismic waves, which can provide high-resolution seismic signals and analyze them in combination with big data. Taiwan has established a national seismic wave database to quickly obtain earthquake information. In the future, we will focus on more effectively feeding back earthquake information to the society, broadcasting the intensity of the earthquake to the location in real time, and actively developing communication-related work. In addition to seismic observations, fiber optic technology has other applications, such as energy exploration and geothermal carbon storage. The Earthquake Science Center conducts seismic modeling studies and simulates basin structures to clearly see changes in seismic wave propagation. The researchers studied the Cheung Chau subsidence-type earthquake that could potentially trigger house collapses, explored the process of seismic acceleration, and hoped to develop predictive models to understand the behavior of magnitude 7.0 earthquakes. The potential of optical fiber technology in the field of earthquake research is considered to help improve the accuracy of disaster prevention and early warning. The speaker emphasized the importance of information disclosure to improve risk management capabilities, and indicated that the earthquake research project may be extended to other fault areas in the future. The speaker mentioned that he hoped to use Chunghwa Telecom's signal to understand the location of faults in order to meet the challenges in earthquake research. Although the research on the earthquake risk map and tsunami potential map has been questioned, the research team still has the opportunity to cooperate with TSMC, which shows that the scientific research results have practical application value. Ideally, seismographs would be deployed inside buildings and reduced costs in order to collect more data. In addition, seismic technology also has potential applications in forward-looking energy planning and earthquake insurance, which is helpful for risk control. Finally, the speaker thanked the audience who participated in the humanities lecture, and looked forward to applying the results of earthquake research to people's livelihood. ,

{{<youtube id="gwzoDYFH5mQ">}}

The theme of this academic lecture is the evolution of Chinese characters, and it will be lectured by Academician Cheng Yue-e, Chair Professor of National Taiwan University. Academician Zheng has made rich achievements in the study of Chinese characters, combining Pentateuch literature with modern Western literature. The film mentions that language is not just a tool, but has diversity in different eras, backgrounds and contexts. In the 1930s, Louis Mumford mentioned changes in the perception of space and time in Technology and Civilization. In addition, the film mentions the choice of definitions and polysemy in the New Encyclopedia of General Encyclopedia, which may make people lose their understanding of the overall structure. Inspired by his experience in teaching Chinese characters, Hu Shi advocated that Chinese should have grammar, and later published "On the Reform of Guoyu Grammar", which raised the vernacular movement to a higher level. This film tells about the reform of Chinese grammar and punctuation marks, and emphasizes that we should not imitate the West, but break through the limitations of grammar and morphology when researching and creating language. In addition, the film explores the importance of rhetoric in language learning, including meaning categories of words, word-making structures, and linguistic diversity and emotional expression. Through Tang Yue's "Rhetorical Revolution", it is proposed that the grammar of reform should conform to grammatical principles and be able to touch emotions. The film also discusses the issues of language change and part-of-speech division in Chinese, and emphasizes the importance of grammar and logic in Chinese and the relationship between language and thought and things. Finally, it introduces the teaching and comprehension methods of language and poetic language science, emphasizing the close reading of the text to understand the semantics, and pointing out the complexity of the psychological structure of the speaker or writer. The film tells how Chinese culture continues to evolve and transform in the modern revolution, emphasizing language diversity and emotional expression. In order to re-understand the essence of Chinese culture, we need to break the framework of modern vision and explore the issue of language diversity. In the process of modern exploration of Chinese poetry, poets have tried many different transformation methods. Language is not only a tool, but also an organ that shapes inner thoughts. In the face of language transformation, we need a language of logical cognition, and at the same time seek a language that integrates across fields, emphasizing the empathy function of language. The development of the Chinese language does not only belong to a certain era or region, but is the result of a civilization that is constantly undergoing transformation. ,

{{<youtube id="OnlBQlqFF_w">}}

At the popular science lecture held by the Academia Sinica in 2023, Wang Zhiming, an associate researcher at the European and American Institute, shared a special speech on power, freedom and dignity with the theme of refugees. The speech discussed the issue of refugee documents, the plight of Afghan refugees and human rights protection laws, and borrowed literature perspectives such as the experience of Vietnamese refugees and books on North Korean refugees to remind everyone to respect the dignity of refugees and the right to pursue freedom. The speaker called for an in-depth investigation of the concept of immigration and caring for refugees, to enhance Taiwan's discussions and actions on refugee issues, and ultimately look forward to combining academic research and practical actions to promote social harmony. This film mainly discusses the refugee issue, analyzes the differences in European attitudes towards different refugee issues, emphasizes the need for more cooperation between the academic and food circles, and pays attention to ethics and morality. When faced with issues such as terrorist attacks, viewers are encouraged to think about the reasons behind the events rather than focusing on specific identities. In addition, the film refers to the differences in the situation of refugees in Europe, the Americas and Asia, and explores issues related to refugee identity and transnational migration. Finally, the speaker called for understanding the real situation of refugees and respecting the special situation of each country. ,

