---
title: "2017"
weight: 283
chapter: true
---


{{<youtube id="z1fV8YXu0WE">}}

The speaker of this event discusses the issues of privacy and privacy rights in the information society, and uses traditional architecture in Taiwan and the Florence Museum in Italy as examples to illustrate the understanding and changes in the concept of privacy in different social periods. The film compares the differences in the translation of privacy in different regions and delves into the spatial and legal aspects of privacy. The speaker emphasized that the modern concept of privacy is not only about protecting personal things and space, but also includes other meanings. At the same time, it points out that the cultural phenomenon of reporting is related to privacy issues, and discusses the different developments in privacy protection in various countries. In addition, it is emphasized that in the information society, the use of mobile phones and applications may lead to the leakage of personal data, which should be paid attention to. This video explores the importance of privacy in modern society and how to protect it. In the face of personal data collection problems brought about by digital technologies such as big data and AI, it emphasizes the protection of corporate transparency for personal privacy. Topics discussed included facial recognition technology, genetic recognition, media changes, and driving recorders, etc., and explained the balance between free flow of information and protection of personal privacy. The speaker emphasized that with the development of science and technology, the protection of personal privacy is particularly important, and called for the determination of social norms through empirical research and attention to the whereabouts of user information. In the age of the Internet of Things, the concept of privacy may change, and a balance needs to be struck among various interests. Finally, the speaker suggested that everyone should discuss and debate together to find a reasonable solution. ,

{{<youtube id="lhxWE6b0Cpo">}}

In this feast of knowledge speech, Dr. Xu Wenlian, director of the Institute of Information Science, was invited to introduce the research content and application in the field of artificial intelligence. Dr. Hui said that artificial intelligence has achieved many breakthroughs due to the development of deep learning, especially in speech recognition and natural language understanding. However, natural language understanding is considered the last hurdle of artificial intelligence, and computers have not yet fully understood human language. Dr. Hsu referred to the challenges of machine translation and language understanding, emphasizing skepticism and humility. In addition, IoT applications can improve the convenience of life, but robots still face challenges in areas such as customer service. This video proposes the concept of pattern matching (Pattern Matching) to improve the accuracy of speech recognition, and introduces how the Shenzhen division of labor teaches computers to understand professional terms and deal with the challenges of non-standard grammar. The film explores applications of linguistic phenomena such as spell checkers, auto-answering questions, and more. In addition, intelligent agent applications are introduced, such as automatic mail classification and reply, automatic scoring system, etc. The film mainly talks about the application of computers in life and work in terms of improving efficiency and reducing review costs. However, there are still certain obstacles for machines to create imaginative works such as novels and songs. The film also discusses how technology can be used to organize and structure ancient books. Finally, issues of database establishment and research funding are mentioned. Human creativity is critical in the development of science, but whether AI can learn creativity is still controversial. Experiments are underway in mathematics to allow computers to perform proofs, while data on the web may be used for analysis and personalized advertising. The potential use and security of future data remains a concern. ,

{{<youtube id="w65c-LYJqac">}}

Director Hu Zhenzhen, who graduated from the Department of Literature at National Taiwan University, shared his research on women's novels in the Qing Dynasty in his speech, and discussed the status of women in ancient literature. Taking Li Qingzhao as an example, she was able to challenge the expectations and restrictions on women at that time, and influenced later generations of female literati. Female writers in the Ming and Qing Dynasties, such as Chen Duansheng, created Tanci novels with delicate styles and complex plots, which gave women more creative space. However, these women writers still struggled with the expectations and constraints of their families and society. The film analyzes the female characters and their psychology in works such as "Rebirth" and "Hou Zhi", and explores how female authors express female psychology with delicate descriptions. Finally, the film mentions that when the female writer Liang Deshen completed Chen Duansheng's unfinished novel, she presented her delicate inner feelings from the perspective of a woman. This film explores gender issues and homosexual elements in ancient female poetry novels. "Bishenghua" and Li Guiyu's "Liuhua Dream" show the rationality of women facing difficulties and the phenomenon of wearing masks to face the future, and present women's indifference to marriage through emotional expression. For love and friendship, the heroines in the story disguise themselves as men and support each other on the battlefield. Through the scenes of women cross-dressing, homosexual relations were highlighted in the social context of the time, paving the way for the current discussion of gay literature and gay feelings. The film also explores the preservation process of women's novels and the presentation of gender identity issues in ancient texts. The speaker emphasized that homosexuality and gender identity need to be discussed separately, and thanked Chief Hu for his in-depth explanation, which gave the audience a better understanding of these issues. ,

