---
title: "2019"
weight: 281
chapter: true
---


{{<youtube id="pFdP1dTdoyI">}}

The Mediterranean diet can help prevent frailty by including enough plant foods such as vegetables, fruits, nuts and oils, which help maintain health and reduce inflammation. However, the Mediterranean diet cannot be fully applied in Taiwan, and we need to make appropriate adjustments according to our own conditions. The balanced dietary recommendations of the US-Japan Dietary Guidelines For the elderly, ensuring that nutrients and protein intake meet the standards can help maintain overall physiological function and muscle mass. For people whose calorie intake is less than 1500 calories, some adjustments should be made, such as appropriately increasing the intake of vegetables and fruits. In Taiwan's dietary recommendations for the elderly, food categories remain stable, but protein and fat should increase. International literature shows that nutrients such as vitamin B group, C, E, D and phytochemicals are related to the synthesis of neurotransmitters, especially vitamin B group has a significant effect on slowing down brain atrophy. The nutritional health survey found that the elderly with low cognitive function had low nutritional intake, including insufficient calories and protein. Therefore, the diet of the elderly should pay attention to nutritional balance, appropriately increase the intake of calories, trace elements, cholesterol, etc., and eat more protein-rich foods, such as fresh fruits, whole milk, fish and seafood. In addition, maintaining the habit of drinking tea and coffee can also help maintain cognitive function. The long-term goal is to prevent cardiovascular disease, and the short-term goal is to ensure adequate nutrition. To maintain a balanced diet, distribute six major food groups, including fruits and vegetables, nuts, seed rings, milk and protein-rich foods, with healthy tea drinks. Eat red meat in moderation and avoid extreme diets. Adjust food distribution according to individual calorie needs, and have a reasonable mix of staple foods, main dishes, vegetables and fruits. Three-dimensional plates can be used to assist in food distribution. Be creative and incorporate a variety of foods into your diet to create fun activities. Taking the elderly as an example, if you can’t finish eating vegetables, you can chop them and mix them with eggs to make a vegetable and egg sandwich. Ensure the intake of fruits, and arrange the intake of fruits and juices according to personal appetite. In short, it is necessary to maintain a balanced and creative eating habit to ensure adequate nutrition. ,

{{<youtube id="-60oUpwC0Pc">}}

This video discusses the differences in conservatism, tradition, and education between men and women. The presenter addressed the identification of being an adult as subjective or objective, and the transformation of teens and adults. At the same time, it also talks about how family structure and family experience affect the behavior and beliefs of adolescents and adults. For example, two-parent families have a higher percentage of college graduates, while non-two-parent families have a higher percentage of high school vocational graduates. In addition, it discusses Taiwan's low birth rate and the phenomenon of marriage and out-of-wedlock children, and mentions why young people lack the motivation to marry and have children. Finally, discuss the impact of parental divorce experience in adolescence on their marital behavior in adulthood, and propose related research topics. Overall, the film explores issues of education, family and society and their impact on personal development and family formation. In this film, the speaker explores the influence of family background on young people's marriage and childbearing. It is mainly pointed out that the intimate relationship of adolescents from divorced families may be negatively affected, and early divorce of parents has an impact on premarital pregnancy of children, but does not affect early marriage. In addition, family income and parent-child relationship have significant gender differences on adolescent marriage and childbearing. Male adolescents with higher family income and better relationships are more likely to marry and have children at the age of 28, while women with the same background are less likely to become pregnant before marriage or early marriage. Finally, it is pointed out that Taiwan and other East Asian societies have conflicts between modern and traditional values, and the interaction of personal resources and cultural norms needs to be considered at the same time. ,

{{<youtube id="oIoIgCPkHv4">}}

The theme of this video is the impact of plant cell structure and gene mutation on plant reproduction and growth. The speaker, Dr. Zhao Guangyu, used Arabidopsis thaliana as a research model to introduce the principles of T-DNA insertion and other mutant strains, and discussed how to use plant materials to study genes that affect growth. It is mentioned in the film that the study of mutants can help to find the key genes involved in the flowering process of plants. Then it explained the key steps of plant cell interaction, pollen tube growth and double fertilization in the process of pollination, and mentioned the parts that still need to be further studied. Using special techniques (such as laser manipulation, confocal optical microscopy, etc.) to study the process of plant breeding, and finally share the T-DNA gene transfer technology and its application in plant gene research. This video introduces techniques such as splicing mechanism, gene introduction into plant cells by Agrobacterium, gene editing and EMS mutation to observe the stability of fluorescent protein in the genome. The speaker, Dr. Gao Guangyu, shared her study experience and research experience, emphasizing the importance of studying hard and developing good habits. He discussed issues such as the source of Iron Cannon Lily, the change of plant flowering time, etc., and advocated respecting nature in research and finding uses and values ​​from it. At the same time, he also mentioned the research on the standards and aesthetic concepts of women's beauty in Ming and Qing Dynasties. ,

{{<youtube id="kjweZK0d_4s">}}

It is mentioned in the film that dietary changes can improve our physical health, such as increasing vegetable and fruit intake, using whole grains, etc. In the process of human aging, vitality and weakness are inseparable. We need to understand ways to take care of our bodies when we are young so we can look our best in old age. Frailty and disability are reversible. By changing our lifestyle and eating habits, we can walk on the road to health. When observing abnormal weight changes and weakened strength in the elderly, it should be noted that this may be a warning sign of frailty syndrome. Frailty is a health problem in older age characterized by symptoms such as weak hand grip, slow walking speed, weight loss and always feeling tired. The development of frailty is related to many factors such as genetic factors and environmental factors, which affect the decline of multiple system organ functions. Proper lifestyle, good nutrition and regular physical activity help maintain good health. With regard to protein intake, through nutritional assessment, it is recommended that the elderly should consume enough protein to maintain the body's needs. Patients with frailty have low protein intake and should consume an appropriate amount of protein according to body weight. The global recommendation for protein intake is 1.2 grams per kilogram of body weight. This value is based on the American and Japanese dietary guidelines, and all nutrients can meet the standards. However, older people who eat less may not be able to meet this standard. Deficiencies in nutrients such as protein, vitamin B12, vitamin C, and zinc can lead to debilitating conditions. The study found that if the elderly in Taiwan suffer from frailty, their diet patterns will be different. Frail people may still eat too much of staple foods and too little of protein and other nutrients. Therefore, dietary recommendations need to be adjusted for those who eat less to ensure that their metabolic needs are met. Taiwanese generally do not consume enough protein and lack dairy products as an important source of protein. Elderly people are especially prone to debilitating diseases. They eat more rice and less protein, milk, vegetables, fruits and fats, which affects their health. In addition, traditional white rice is not rich in nutrients, which can easily cause calorie deficiency. Therefore, it is particularly important to have a balanced diet and increase the intake of protein, milk and other foods. ,

{{<youtube id="_r-6fgbz0zs">}}

This video is the 2018 Governor Xiangyan Science Popularization Lecture. Wang Xiangyu, deputy director of the Institute of Astrophysics, is invited to give a speech. The content involves the introduction of astronomical observation instruments and their operating principles, as well as how astronomers use these instruments to obtain information about the mass, temperature, and distance of celestial bodies. . At the same time, the imaging quality and infrared design in astrophotography, as well as the application of optical systems in spectral analysis are also discussed. In addition, the film explores the operational challenges of instruments in extreme environments and the improvement of astronomical image quality by image processing technology. This film explores the techniques, equipment and associated challenges required for astronomical observations. First point out the time and academic pressure of establishing an observatory, and discuss the future application of high-resolution sensors for astronomy and the reasons for choosing 10 micron pixel size. The video introduces the requirements of astronomical photosensitive elements and the difficulties in cooperating with manufacturers, and uses the Mexican Observatory project and two important astronomical satellite projects as examples. In addition, the film touches on issues such as the procurement of optical materials and the construction of telescopes in mainland China, and discusses the reasons for the selection of the observatory's location and the impact of humidity and temperature on the water vapor content in the air. As a cross-field integration platform, the Institute of Natural Physics shares knowledge related to astronomical observations in popular science lectures, such as wide-angle observations of the moon. ,

